CS 611 Legends: Monsters and Heroes In this assignment you will implement a role-playing game in Java using object-oriented principles and design. This is a magical game full of spells, monsters, and heroes. The monsters and heroes live in a fictional world. They do not get along and therefore fight each other. Every time the heroes win, they gain experience and money. Heroes use the money to buy a variety of items to aid them in their battles with the monsters. When they accumulate enough experience, they level up, which improves their skills. The goal of the game is for the heroes to defeat monsters and level up indefinitely. I. The World of Play The world of the game is represented by a fixed, square grid of spaces. The grid contains three types of spaces: • Inaccessible spaces, which the heroes cannot enter • Market spaces, where items can be bought or sold • Common spaces, where battles can occur Every time the heroes visit a common tile, there is a chance that they will engage in a battle with the monsters. These monsters are not created when the map is created. Every time the heroes visit a space, we "roll a dice," and, if they are unlucky, then the monsters are created and the battle begins immediately.  The party of heroes is always located in a specific space of the grid. When not in a battle, the party can move up, down, left, or right to an adjacent space. The player can enter the market if the party is on a market space. An example world size is 8 spaces by 8 spaces. In this size our suggestion is to have 20% inaccessible spaces, 30% market spaces, and 50% common spaces. II. The Battle The battle pits the party of heroes against a group of monsters. A battle consists of multiple rounds, where the heroes and monsters each make moves. The fight ends when the HP of either all of the monsters or all of the heroes is zero. If the heroes win the fight, they earn money and experience, potentially leveling up. If the monsters win the fight, the game is over. The monsters are created at the beginning of the battle. Their level should be scaled to the level of the heroes. There will be as many monsters as there are heroes. For example, if the player begins their adventure with two heroes, then every battle will be against two monsters. A more complex (and dangerous!) version might vary the number of monsters encountered and the monsters’ levels. 
The heroes move first in each round. During the heroes’ turn, the player chooses for each hero whether they will do one of the following: • Attack, using the hero’s equipped weapon • Cast a spell from the hero’s inventory • Use a potion from the hero’s inventory • Equip a weapon or piece of armor In addition, at any time during the heroes’ turn, the player can display the statistics (ex. strength, or base damage) of a hero or a monster. This will not consume the turn. Monsters have a base dodge chance, allowing them to occasionally avoid taking damage from an attack or a spell. If an attack or a spell lowers a monster’s HP to 0, that monster is defeated and removed from the battle. After the heroes have made their moves, the monsters’ turn begins. The monsters will only attack the heroes, as they do not have items or spells to use. Heroes also have a dodge chance that will allow them to occasionally avoid taking damage from a monster’s attack. If a monster’s attack lowers a hero’s HP to 0, that hero will faint. Fainted heroes cannot take actions for the remainder of the battle. During the round, clearly show to the player who took what action and that action’s result. For example: “Karl the Barbarian attacked the Red Dragon for 504 damage!”, “Merlin used a health potion and recovered 300 HP!”, or “The Giant Bug attacked Wallace the Lame for 120 damage! Wallace the Lame fainted!” At the end of each round (after the monsters’ turn), heroes that have not fainted regain some of their HP and mana. The heroes win the battle if they defeat all of the monsters. If the heroes win, they gain experience and money, and all fainted heroes are revived. The experience gained should be scaled to the level of the monsters defeated. For example, a level 1 monster may grant 1 experience point, while a level 10 monster may grant 10 experience points. The money gained should also be scaled to the level of the monsters defeated. For example, a level 1 monster may grant 100 gold, while a level 10 monster may grant 1000 gold. A fainted hero is revived with half of their HP and mana, but they will not gain any gold or experience. The battle has several ways that it can be fought. The simplest version would be a series of 1-on-1 fights between an individual monster and an individual hero. A more complex version would be a full-team fight between the party and the monster group, where each combatant chooses their target when attacking. There are many variations of these two ideas, as well as completely different ways to conduct the battle. The version you choose to implement needs only to allow for all of the behavior specified above, namely that it is possible for all of the heroes to faint and for all of the monsters to be defeated. 




The Heroes and Monsters The heroes of the world have banded together into a party to fight monsters. At the start of the game, allow the player to choose how many heroes to play with. There should be a limit to how many heroes there are in the party. A hero has several attributes: • A name • A level with an amount of experience points • HP (hit points, the hero’s in battle) • MP (mana or magic points, for casting spells) • A strength value • A dexterity value • An agility value • An amount of gold • An inventory of items The example rules section at the end of this document contains several formulae you can use for determining HP, MP, and the calculations involving strength, dexterity, and agility. Level and experience points. A hero has a level, representing how strong (or not) that hero is. Experience points determine the hero’s level. A hero levels up after accumulating enough experience points. A hero’s skills increase when the hero levels up. A hero never loses experience. It accumulates over the course of the game. HP. HP is the hero’s current health. For simplicity, the hero’s HP does not have to be capped (have a maximum amount). For example, in other games a hero has a maximum of 100 HP and cannot go over this limit (it is said to be capped). So, if the hero currently has 90 hp and uses a potion that increases HP by 50, then the hero’s HP would now become 100. In Monsters and Heroes you can assume that the hero’s HP will become 140 in the same scenario. The initial HP value is determined by hero’s level. When a hero levels up, they have their HP set according to the same formula. MP. MP (or mana) is used to cast spells. For simplicity, the hero’s MP does not have to be capped (like HP). The initial MP value is determined by the hero’s level. When a hero levels up, they have their MP set according to the same formula. Strength. A hero’s strength increases the amount of damage they deal when using a weapon.  Dexterity. A hero’s dexterity increases the amount of damage they deal when casting a spell. Agility. A hero’s agility increases their chance to dodge a monster’s attack. Gold. Gold represents the hero’s money for use in the market. 

